>> Mike North: Now that we've had
a little refresher on promises,
we're going to put them to
work in combination with
something that is really powerful idea,
right?
It's been around since i11, but
it is widely underutilized.
So if promises are overutilized and
you see promises everywhere,
even in places where it is potentially
not necessary to use them.
This is,
JavaScript workers are something that
could probably ease a lot of pain in apps.
And people are, to some degree,
either afraid or
not knowledgeable enough to figure out
a way to make this idea work for them.
And here is the general idea.
So JavaScript,
the way it works internally,
you can think of it like a single
really awesome multitasker.
So JavaScript has a great
concurrency story, but
it is one thread that your
program is running on.
And although we can send
out 15 Ajax requests, and
they're all happening,
the browser is kind of taking that ask for
some data at this URL and running with it,
and something's happening.
You can think of that as almost like,
I've set an alarm,
I've set a timer and
it's gonna go off in a couple minutes.
Or I've,
>> Mike North: Ordered something on
the phone and it'll come later.
But at any given time, you're only one
person kicking off all of these things and
then handling them when they complete.
When we talk about parallel programming,
this is the idea, this is like two
multitaskers doing things at the exact
same time in the same moment.
That is the power of JavaScript workers.
So when we create a worker, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Two or n, like?
>> Mike North: n.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Mike North: When you solve the problem
and you can get two, you can get N.
So moving from one to two
is the big idea here,
or one to n, as you readily point out.
So we basically create a worker using this
worker constructor you see here, right?
And the single argument that we pass to it
is the path where a script can be found,
and this could be a URL, the script
could be it is yet to be downloaded.
But it is sort of a self-contained
world in it and of itself.
And this is good because
you want to have sort of
pretty rigid walls in between these
different things that are running.
For example, you can't really share
scope in between these without
going through a little explicit
passing of information back and forth.
When you create a worker,
you can send messages to it, and
that worker can send messages
back to whatever created it.
And in this case,
we're talking about a dedicated worker.
We will add some nuance to
the problem in a moment.
So this is what your application would
look like if you're creating a worker.
Now, if we take a look at what might
happen inside worker JS, on the right
side of the screen, for completeness,
that first line is just,
we're getting a log function that
is doing our console logging.
So I've made this a complete example,
but that's not meaningful here.
And you can see that we have
a self.onmessage that we're defining, and
we set the value of
onmessage to a function.
And this function will be called whenever
the host application sends something
to the worker via postMessage.
So we send it an object and
it's going to retrieve.
So the onmessage function
will be called with an event,
just like if you've ever hooked up to an
input, an HTML input, you can usually find
that there's this event that represents
some additional meta information.
And on that event,
you can usually find the data of interest,
something that has changed.
So in this case, you'll get a single
argument in onmessage, and you'll just
gonna wanna pluck the data attribute off
of that, and you'll get that object.
And we're gonna console log fit like,
as the worker,
I have received this data, and
in Chrome and in modern browsers,
this will be mixed together with
your host applications log.
You'll see it all there together.
You may see a little gear next to it, and
that represents that
this came from a worker.
I will demonstrate how this works as
we spin up to the first exercise here.
So then within this worker, we're going
to kick off this function doWork.
And the important thing I want you to
see is that we're using setTimeout,
which is available to us inside
the scope of this worker.
And in two seconds, we're gonna take
the string that we were passed,
and we're gonna uppercase it, and then
we're gonna send it back to the parent.
And the parent is going to receive
it on the onmessage function here.
So this is a little clunky,
we wish that this was written with
a promise-based API or
even a true callback-based API.
And you can see here,
we are assigning function values to
special property names,
this seems very old to do it this way.
And the reason is the standard
was invented in 2010, 2009,
and promises were a thing,
it was like a jQuery feature or
a Dojo feature, and
it was not part of the standard.
So it's not all that refined, but
it is still really powerful idea here.
And the power here has to do with the fact
that although computers are getting
faster year over year, if you've ever
heard of this concept of Moore's law.
It basically says like, over time,
the number of semiconductors we can pack
into a chip,
I believe it doubles every seven years.
The problem now is we're getting 10,
12 cores,
the new Mac Pros,
they have 18 cores on them,
and JavaScript can only run on
one of those at any given time.
Your application is running on
one-eighteenth of that processor.
And the ability to put things onto other
cores is an important way that JavaScript
can kind of step forward, and then we can
take advantage of these advancements.
So we're sort of scaling horizontally
at this point and not vertically.
And it's really important that,
as a programming language,
to stay relevant, we learn to take
advantage of all that unused capacity.